Fix #750 (#906)
Dyalog/documentation: language-reference-guide/docs/system-functions/ucs.md

Reviewer: X can also now be a 2-element nested array

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Monadic `⎕UCS` converts any character array to a numeric array of the same shape, or any numeric array to a character array of the same shape. When doing this, characters are converted to Unicode code points and Unicode code points are converted to characters.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dyadic `⎕UCS` translates between Unicode characters and one of three standard variable-length Unicode encoding schemes – UTF-8, UTF-16, or UTF-32. These represent a Unicode character string as a vector of 1-byte (UTF-8), 2-byte (UTF-16) and 4-byte (UTF-32) signed integer values respectively.
```

`⎕UCS` converts (Unicode) characters into integers and vice versa.

The optional left argument `X` is a one- or two-element vector. The first element is the name of a variable-length Unicode encoding scheme and must be one of:

- `'UTF-8'`
- `'UTF-16'`
- `'UTF-32'`

> The second element is either `0` (the default) to consume and return byte values as positive integers or `83` to use 1-byte integers (type 83). `83` can currently only be used with `'UTF-8'`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The second element is either `0` (the default) to consume and return byte values as positive integers or `83` to use 1-byte integers (type 83). `83` can only be used with `'UTF-8'`.
```

> If `X` does not abide by the above restrictions, a `DOMAIN ERROR` is issued.

Reviewer 2: This description seems to preclude the previous format, which was that X is a simple character vector - to specify e.g. UTF-8, it says you now have to give the argument as <code>(,⊂'UTF-8')</code>. This is not the case - a simple character vector is still allowed.

`⎕UCS` converts (Unicode) characters into integers and vice versa.

The optional left argument `X` must be one of:

- `'UTF-8'`
- `'UTF-8' 83`
- `'UTF-16'`
- `'UTF-32'`

> The character vector is the name of a variable-length Unicode encoding scheme and `83` specifies use of 1-byte integers (type 83) in result or right argument (whichever is numeric).

Reviewer 3: `83` specifies use of 1-byte signed integers (type 83)

Should we also say 
'0' specifies use of 1-byte unsigned integers (the default, can be omitted)

## Dyadic `⎕UCS`

> Dyadic `⎕UCS` translates between Unicode characters and one of three standard variable-length Unicode encoding schemes – UTF-8, UTF-16, or UTF-32. These represent a Unicode character string as a vector of 1-byte (UTF-8), 2-byte (UTF-16) and 4-byte (UTF-32) signed integer values respectively.

Reviewer 3: unsigned integer values
```suggestion
Dyadic `⎕UCS` translates between Unicode characters and one of three standard variable-length Unicode encoding schemes – UTF-8, UTF-16, or UTF-32. These represent a Unicode character string as a vector of 1-byte (UTF-8), 2-byte (UTF-16) and 4-byte (UTF-32) integer values respectively. In the case of 1-byte integers, they can be specified to be signed or unsigned.
```

947 949 953 945 32 963 959 965
```

### UTF-8 Signed Integers

> Because integers are *signed*, numbers greater than 127 will be represented as 2-byte integers (type 163) which both double memory usage and are not suitable for writing directly to a native file without a costly conversion to 1-byte integers (type 83). In addition, reading such bytes from a native file can give negative numbers that are not suitable for direct consumption by `⎕UCS`. However, if `X` is `'UTF-8' 83`, `⎕UCS` will convert UTF-8 text by directly producing and consuming 1-byte integers (type 83) without passing through 2-byte integers. For example:

Reviewer: If useful to a user, explicitly include the detail that when a `[;2]` is `83` the values are emitted as type-83 bytes with values ¯128-127 (rather than 0-255).

Author: I don't think that'll help. If they don't know this already, it won't help here. The uninitiated user just needs to know that they need `83` to make things work.

947 949 953 945 32 963 959 965
```

### UTF-8 Signed Integers

> By default, `⎕UCS` consumes and returns unsigned integers.  Numbers greater than 127 will be represented as 2-byte integers (type 163) which use twice as much memory and are not suitable for writing directly to a native file. In addition, reading such numbers from a native file will give negative numbers that are not suitable for direct consumption by `⎕UCS`. Conversion to and from 1-byte signed integers (type 83) is complicated and costly. For UTF-8 only, `⎕UCS` can directly produce and consume such integers with by using the left argument `'UTF-8' 83`. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, `⎕UCS` consumes and returns unsigned integers. Numbers greater than 127 will be represented as 2-byte integers (type 163); these use twice as much memory as 1-byte integers and are not suitable for writing directly to a native file. In addition, reading such numbers from a native file will give negative numbers that are not suitable for direct consumption by `⎕UCS`. Conversion to and from 1-byte signed integers (type 83) is complicated and costly. For UTF-8 only, `⎕UCS` can directly produce and consume such integers by using the left argument `'UTF-8' 83`. For example:
```

Reviewer: "reading such numbers from a native file will give negative numbers"

Not sure how to parse this...rewrite please. Do you mean "when converting from a native file, the numbers that are returned are negative" or something else?

```apl
      'UTF-8' 83 ⎕UCS 'ABCÆØÅ'
65 66 67 ¯61 ¯122 ¯61 ¯104 ¯61 ¯123
      'UTF-8' 83 ⎕UCS ¯61 ¯122, ¯61 ¯104, ¯61 ¯123
ÆØÅ
      'UTF-8' 83 ⎕UCS 'γεια σου'
¯50 ¯77 ¯50 ¯75 ¯50 ¯71 ¯50 ¯79 32 ¯49 ¯125 ¯50 ¯65 ¯49 ¯123
```
This facilitates storing Unicode text in native files as UTF-8. For example:
```apl
      tn←'letters.txt' ⎕NCREATE 0
      ('UTF-8' 83 ⎕UCS 'ABCÆØÅ') ⎕NAPPEND tn
      'UTF-8' 83 ⎕UCS ⎕NREAD tn 83 ¯1 0
ABCÆØÅ
```

### UTF-16 and UCS-2

> For most characters in the first plane of Unicode (0000-FFFF), UTF-16 and UCS-2 are identical. However, UTF-16 has the potential to encode all Unicode characters, by using more than 2 bytes for characters outside plane 1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For most characters in the [first plane of Unicode (0000-FFFF)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Plane_(Unicode)#Basic_Multilingual_Plane), UTF-16 and UCS-2 are identical. However, UTF-16 can potentially encode all Unicode characters by using more than 2 bytes for characters outside the first plane.
```

947 949 953 945 32 963 959 965
```

### UTF-8 Signed Integers

> Because integers are *signed*, numbers greater than 127 will be represented as 2-byte integers (type 163) which both double memory usage and are not suitable for writing directly to a native file without a costly conversion to 1-byte integers (type 83). In addition, reading such bytes from a native file can give negative numbers that are not suitable for direct consumption by `⎕UCS`. However, if `X` is `'UTF-8' 83`, `⎕UCS` will convert UTF-8 text by directly producing and consuming 1-byte integers (type 83) without passing through 2-byte integers. For example:

Reviewer 3: how about something like

The short version:
⎕ucs consumes and returns unsigned integers.  For UTF-8 only, it is possible to pass and receive 1-byte signed integers by specifying the left argument to be ‘UTF-8’ 83.

The long version:
Internally Dyalog APL holds integer values as signed integers.  A 1-byte signed integer can contain values between ¯128 and 127, whereas a 1-byte unsigned integer can contain values between 0 and 255.
However, ⎕UCS was implemented such that numeric arguments and return values must be unsigned.  However, quite often numeric UTF-8 strings are brought into the interpreter or need to be passed out from the interpreter as signed integers (⎕nread and ⎕nappend are examples of system function which work with signed values).
Until version 21.0 it would have been necessary to convert such numeric strings from signed to unsigned and vice-versa.  This makes for more complex code, and the unsigned equivalent requires twice the space.    In 21.0, for 1-byte values only, it is possible, by extending the left argument to include 83 as the second element, so pass unsigned values to and from ⎕ucs.
